I^Òd like to begin by restating what I^Òve said in previous years, that there are
three major purposes for our annual Valentine Awards. The first is to honor poets
who have gifted our readers with exceptionally powerful work. The images, moods,
and emotions in their haiku continue to resonate long after we^Òve read them. The
second purpose is to provide you an opportunity to help shape the evolution of
haiku beyond your individual publishing efforts. Poems voted to be favorites serve
as guiding lights for poets and editors alike. Haiku included in the Valentine
Awards issue exemplify qualities that are generally held by our readers to be most
effective. The third purpose goes along with the second. A thorough review of a
given volume of The Heron^Òs Nest (with the intention of voting for favorite haiku)
produces valuable insights about which techniques work and which do not.

All year long we receive poems from around the world. We probably read close to
13,000 poems during 2003, but seriously considered only about one in twenty (5%).
Of those 3,000 or so true contenders, we accepted about one in five (20%). Of the
636 poems in Volume V, 343 (54%) received at least one vote. These figures are
meant to illustrate a point. We feel that all poems that have been accepted into
The Heron^Òs Nest are worthy of praise.

The editors chose 36 poems (three per month) to be Editors^Ò Choices. That^Òs only
one quarter of one percent of the approximately 13,000 poems submitted to us. Of
those 36, the twelve Heron^Òs Nest Award poems constitute one tenth of one percent
of all poems submitted. Amazing odds! Again this year, the results of Valentine
Award voting clearly affirm that readers and editors agree in feeling that certain
poems stand out from all the rest! We are happy to tell you that, of the twelve
Heron^Òs Nest Award winners, eleven were voted into the top twelve places.

We are pleased that The Heron^Òs Nest continues to attract a healthy balance
between poets from North America and those from other parts of the world. Volume V
includes work from poets who live in 28 countries and in 33 of the United States.
We are also pleased with the balance of new voices and long-time contributors. Of
the 166 poets represented in 2003, 48 (30%) of them were new to The Nest. Of those
48 poets, 38 (23%) are new to the haiku community. It is a great pleasure to share
for the first time the voices of ten poets who have been writing for many years
and whose names are very familiar to many of us.

Far more voters turned out for the fifth annual Valentine Awards than ever before.
We thank all of you who took the time to select your favorite poems. Choosing only
ten from 636 is a difficult challenge. Fortunately it appears to have been a
richly rewarding process. Along with poems selected, many of you sent along
comments about your voting experiences. We very much appreciate such responses and
have decided to share some of them (with permission, of course) with all of our
readers. You^Òll find these ^ÓNotes from Voters^Ô on the insides of the cover.

We value the contributions of everyone who has appeared in The Heron^Òs Nest and
thoroughly enjoy corresponding with you, encouraging you, and learning from you.
You have shared with us a wealth of deeply resonant moments, expressed with great
skill. We thank you for giving us the opportunity to share your haiku with the
world. Those of you who appear in the Valentine Awards issue have achieved
something extra special. It is our great pleasure to honor you.

^×Christopher Herold
