Dear Friends and Readers of The Nest,

Two reminders and an announcement: 

• The voter turnout for The Heron’s Nest annual Readers’ Choice Awards has 
been excellent thus far but we have a way to go to reach last year’s number 
of participants. I encourage all of you who have not yet voted to do so. 
There are still eleven days until the deadline of midnight, January 15. 
Selecting your favorite poems is a challenge to be sure, but is almost 
invariably a thoroughly enjoyable experience as well, and a great many 
of those who have participated in the past have made a point of mentioning 
that the process of voting is a marvelous learning experience. Please do 
vote! Click on the following URL to read the voting guidelines:

<http://www.theheronsnest.com/haiku/thn_va_announce.09.html#VOTE> 

• The paper edition of Volume IX will be coming out at the beginning of 
April. The cost per copy is $16 in the U.S.; $18 in Canada or Mexico; 
$20 elsewehere. If you haven’t already placed your order, it would be 
helpful to me if you were to do so sooner than later. Thank you.

• The illustrations have been chosen for Volume IX! We are grateful for 
all the fine pieces of art that were submitted and recognize that a good 
deal of time and effort was needed to create, copy, package, and send 
those illustrations. We greatly appreciate the efforts of all who 
participated. Special congratulations are due the winners:

Cover: Jamie Edgecomb — Tavistock, England
Volume Overview: Jamie Edgecomb
Spring: C. Avery — Kailua, Kona, Hawaii
Summer: C. Avery
Autumn: C. Avery
Winter: Natalia Rudychev — DesPlaines, Illinois
Readers’ Choice Awards: Doris Thurston — Port Townsend, Washington
Readers’ Choice Awards Overview: Ruth Yarrow — Seattle, Washington
Special Mentions: Sandra Simpson — Tauranga, New Zealand
Readers’ Comments: Doris Thurston  

We hope to post thumbnail sketches of the artwork on the web-site soon.  

With my best wishes to you all. May 2008 bring you much happiness and 
inspiration,

Christopher Herold
