Dear Friends and Readers,

I have decided that the time has come for me to step down as Managing
Editor of The Heron's Nest. This decision comes after a great deal
of thought and soul-searching, at a time when The Nest is
flourishing, its readership ever growing. We Editors, along with
Web-Wizard, Paul Mena, are the best of friends and work together in a
manner so fluid and efficient that it seems almost effortless,
although a great deal of time and effort is put into what we do. So
why am I am stepping down? Because there are other areas in my life
upon which I wish to focus my attention and must do so more fully. If
I were to attempt to continue as Managing Editor, I feel that I would
be doing a disservice to haiku, The Heron's Nest, and to you, the
poets and readers who are at the heart of our journal. I shall,
however, remain in the wings (so to speak) as a consultant and to
help in other ways as needed and as I can.

Another reason I feel able to make this decision is that The Heron's
Nest is now a well-established journal, deeply rooted and well
tended. It will have no trouble continuing under the guidance of a
new Managing Editor. And this leads me to share with you the best of
news. It seems that the stars are aligned fortuitously since the
ideal person to take my place will soon be retiring from his current
editorial position and has enthusiastically accepted our invitation
for him to take over where I leave off.

I am delighted to tell you that, beginning with the first issue of
Volume X 2008, John Stevenson will be the Managing Editor of The
Heron's Nest. As most of you know, John is currently the Editor of
the Haiku Society of America's journal, Frogpond (Associate Editor,
2002-2004; Editor, 2005-2007).

After writing and publishing other forms of poetry for over thirty
years, John first encountered haiku at a theatre workshop in July
1992, where a Japanese actress shared her favorite poem. His first
publication of haiku was in Brussels Sprout, January 1993. He has
also been a member of the Haiku Society of America since 1993. In
addition to his most recent editorial duties, John was the HSA
Regional Coordinator for the Northeast Metro Region (1995-1996),
edited the HSA Members' Anthology of 1997, and was elected President
of HSA in 2000. In 2001 he was again elected, this time to the post
of Second Vice President, and then again in 2002 to be Treasurer.

Beyond his considerable contributions to the Haiku Society of
America, John Stevenson has been one of the most consistently
applauded poets in The Heron's Nest as well as its most prolifically
published poet. Two of John's poems appeared in the inaugural issue
of The Heron's Nest (September 1999) and since then he has only been
absent from its pages on four occasions. To date, 88 of his poems
have been published in The Nest. Of those, three have won Heron's
Nest Awards, five have been runners-up to the award, and three more
received numerous votes in the end-of-the-year Readers' Choice
Awards and were subsequently chosen for Special Mention. A
magnificent accomplishment and all the more reason to welcome John
Stevenson as the most natural successor to my position of Managing
Editor (the unanimous wish, by the way, of the entire Heron's Nest
team).

John Stevenson has three published haiku collections:

Something Unerasable (1996), self published
Some of the Silence (1999), Red Moon Press
Quiet Enough (2004), Red Moon Press, Merit Book Award

In accepting our invitation, John wrote, "My hope is that readers and
contributors will find The Heron's Nest the same publication next
year that it has been all along and that the transition of managing
editors will be smooth and barely noticeable to those who have
admired the Nest, as I have, in previous years."

I feel supremely confident that John's "hopes" will be the case,
that the transition will indeed be smooth and seamless.

To say "I am profoundly grateful to all of you who have supported
The Heron's Nest and who have contributed to its pages," would not
be nearly enough to express my thanks. At least as much, are my
feelings of gratitude to my dear friends, Ferris Gilli, Paul MacNeil,
Peggy Lyles, Robert Gilliland, and Paul Mena. I have never been part
of a more congenial, compassionate, and skillful team.

This is both a sad and joyous occasion. Sad because, for me, this is
the end of an epoch. The last eight years of editing The Nest have
been wonderfully full and rich, among the most satisfying of my life.
I will miss the part I've played in developing and refining a
supportive publication for serious haiku poets the world 'round.
Joyous because I feel that, with the help of my friends, I've
accomplished something of great worth and that The Heron's Nest not
only can but will continue without me. I am a proud parent!

I will be here to put out the December issue, to oversee the
Readers' Choice Award voting, and to publish the annual paper
edition, Volume IX. Once that is in the mail, I'll officially pass
The Heron's Nest into the capable hands of John Stevenson where it
is sure to thrive. I look forward to reading your inspired haiku
among the pages of many more Heron's Nests in the years to come.

Thank you all very much!

Christopher Herold

