Here are the two essays (one by me and one by Fig) to use as examples:

By Fig:

Allen McGill lives in Mexico.  The Heron's Nest first published his work in
December 2002, and he has contributed regularly to our journal ever
since.  It has been my great pleasure to serve as his editor.

This year Allen's fellow readers and writers awarded him the fourth highest
number of votes overall.  He won the Heron's Nest Award in July 2003, with a
poem whose beauty and level of  insight continue to garner praise from
readers.  Of his ten poems that appeared in Volume V, "storm
clouds" received the most points:

storm clouds
the valley darkens
farm by farm

Allen's haiku demonstrate his respect for the natural world and his affinity
for its creatures.  Many feature animals, usually combined with some aspect
of humanity.  Skillfully balancing humankind and nature, Allen juxtaposes
vivid images to create memorable, multilayered haiku.  His work is rich with
sensory appeal that draws readers into the writer's experience.

a gull slips
on the polished handrail
rolling thunder

sunglare
the rasp as my clam rake
uncovers tin cans

evening rain
the deaf dog sleeps
with a paw on my foot

Allen's haiku come from the real world, from life.  When he includes
himself, he is careful not to let the poet get in the way of the poem.


************

By Punchy:

READERS' CHOICE SECOND RUNNER-UP
vincent tripi

vincent tripi is one of those special individuals who breathes new life into the
haiku genre. He often does so by presenting common subjects from uncommon
perspectives. Sometimes this is startling:

her only nipple
begins to harden
a new year

Deathbed . . .
my old friend's imitation
of a firefly

The connections between people, or between people and nature are often central to
tripi's haiku. He is a master of "show don't tell," ever nudging us toward a
deeper, more universal understanding of the experience described. A good example
is "small town / the smell of / everyone's wood." On the surface, the olfactory
image is plain enough, and easily accessible. Without digging far, however,  one
uncovers an intriguing paradox: we are at once independent and interdependent.
With a casual whiff, the scent of woodsmoke may seem homogeneous, but tripi is
sensitive, a haiku poet. He detects at least one particular variety of wood and
intuits a multitude of fires. The smoke from each rises and mingles with smoke
from the others. One more step returns him to the recognition of a unified whole.
The small size of the town is meaningful here. Most of the inhabitants know and
interact with one another, just as the various odors of smoke rise and mingle.
tripi's haiku are not without humor. In this poem he pokes fun, subtly, at another
side of the same fact: in small towns everyone knows what everyone else is doing.
Sometimes his humor is right up front, as in one of my favorites:

a foot of snow--
the cat out loving and
where is the garden Buddha?

Superficially, this is hilarious - the thought of a cat's kinky romancing of a stone
Buddha. Even so, as with most of tripi's work, there are profound levels. The
garden Buddha (just a representation of the historical figure) is transcended,
literally and figuratively, by snow. A great leveler of playing fields, the snow
covers everything, leading us to realize that there is "nowhere to spit and not
hit Buddha!"

vince tripi's work is exciting, provocative, and rewarding. I'm delighted that
readers have voted accordingly.

