The Heron’s Nest Is Celebrating!

We have published our Tenth Volume and are selecting work for year number 
eleven.

It is time to pause and thank three kinds of Families for our success and 
endurance.

First, the Staff Family with whom I have been privileged to work -- and 
pleasurable work it is.  Kudos to the all-volunteer staff, especially 
Christopher Herold and his vision.  We, the current six, have successfully 
and amicably survived three retirements, found new folks to fill in, and 
kept on going under the fearless leadership of John Stevenson, new Managing 
Editor.

Thanks also to the Families of the Staff for their patience and help.  
They know who they are.  Some must smile at our seeming whimsy.  “You type 
and read for endless hours for absolutely no money at all?”

Forgive us a dab of pride.  With December’s edition, we have published 
our 77th Issue spanning 10 Volumes.  We switched from monthly to quarterly 
publication after Vol. VI.  Every scheduled issue of the journal has been 
on time.  Unique among English-language haiku journals, The Heron’s Nest 
is available in both print and electronic formats.  We have publicly shared 
nearly 5,000 haiku (not including Memorials, we will go past that milestone 
with the next issue in 2009).  These haiku have been rigorously edited, 
now selected by a panel of five Editors up from Christopher alone the first 
year.  All works are available without charge, searchable by poet, at the 
web site archives.

Yes, herons do puff out their feathers and can raise their crests. Yet, 
I know I speak for all of us when I say that above all, as we
celebrate, we humbly thank our contributing writers: our Family of readers 
and poets.  Christopher Herold, the Founding Editor, has told me he had 
no notion that his dream for a journal would lead to the size and quality 
that has resulted.  He especially is pleased, as are we all, that poets 
writing in English contribute from so many countries, regions, and cultures.

Now, listen with us as the “virtual” champagne cork pops, see the bubbles 
rise in crystal stemware.  Our noisemakers unroll with a kazooing “Whee!”  
Confetti is in the air  . . .

Paul MacNeil for The Staff, January 2009

P.S. - Please remember to send your Readers' Choice votes before the 
       January 15 deadline. Instructions can be found at the link
       <http://www.theheronsnest.com/haiku/thn_va_announce.10.html>
