LET THE VOTING BEGIN!

The Fifth Annual

VALENTINE AWARDS
for the best haiku in The Heron's Nest, Volume V

In-hand Deadline: Midnight, January 15, 2004

Along with this December issue comes your opportunity to participate in
the Readers' Choice voting for favorite poems published in Volume V of
The Heron's Nest (2003). Our views of what constitute the best in English
language haiku continue to evolve. We encourage you to make your
influence felt by taking the time to vote for your favorite poems.

The Valentine Awards issue will be posted and mailed in mid-February. As
with all other issues of The Heron's Nest, the awards issue will be sent
to the American Haiku Archives at the California State Library in
Sacramento and to the Museum of Haiku Literature in Tokyo. Notification
of Valentine Award winners will also be sent to many haiku organizations
and independent journals for announcement, if so permitted.

READERS' CHOICE AWARDS

There are two Readers' Choice Grand Prizes. Both are plaques inscribed
with the poet's name and haiku. One plaque will go to the poet whose
haiku receives the most votes from readers. Another will be awarded to
the "Most Popular Poet," the poet whose combined works in Volume V
garner the highest number of points overall. Four Runners-Up in each
category will receive certificates of award.

EDITORS' CHOICE AWARD

A Grand Prize and two Runners-Up will be chosen by the editors. As with
the Readers' Choice awards, the Grand Prize winner will receive a
plaque. Runners-Up winners will receive certificates of award.

HOW TO CAST YOUR VOTES

All haiku appearing in the twelve issues of Volume V are eligible except
for those included in memorial presentations. And, of course, you cannot
vote for your own haiku.

First review the poems in Volume V. All issues are archived and easily
accessible for review at: <http://www.theheronsnest.com/>.  If you are a 
subscriber to the paper journal, but don't have a complete set of Volume V, 
missing issues can be ordered from Christopher Herold. Please see ordering 
information inside the front cover of the paper editions.

List ten favorite haiku in your order of preference.

Send your list of  ten favorite haiku to Christopher Herold:
email: <theheronsnest@cablespeed.com>
conventional mail: 816 Taft Street, Port Townsend, WA 98368.

Thank you for nurturing haiku and supporting The Heron's Nest!
