the heat          
two boys take it  
outside           
Paul Pfleuger, Jr.

In just seven words, this haiku conjures up a myriad images.  As the oldest 
of three brothers and the father of three sons, my mind immediately races
through memories old and new.  My most vivid recollection, however, is far
more recent - as well as somewhat embarrassing.  New to my current position,
a former manager attempted to motivate me with a highly public, utterly
unprofessional tirade.  My response to him was even-tempered but stern:
I assured him that if he ever raised his voice to me again that we would
"step outside and settle it like men".  So here are two questions to which 
most of us as colloquial English-speakers already know the answers: what is 
"it", and what does it mean to "take it outside"?

Paul Pfleuger helps us to answer this question by establishing the scene 
with two simple words, "the heat".  We know this right away to be a reference 
to temperature, but implications abound: among them tension, impatience and 
discomfort.  For this reason, we understand that the "it" in the second line 
is not a barking dog or a burning frying pan.  "It" is a boiling over of 
emotions verging on physical confrontation, and as it is often blind to 
surroundings or circumstances, it is best relocated where it is least likely 
to damage a home or establishment.     

The "two boys" in the second line could be soldiers from a crowded barracks
or bar patrons who've had a few too many, but I prefer a more literal reading:
that two pre-adolescent males have somehow crossed from the land of "playing 
nice" to the less hospitable terrain of "playing rough".  I recall my uncle
dealing with this situation by refusing to intervene in the quarrels between
my two cousins, but rather letting them fight in the backyard until one of 
them returned to the house crying - usually from a wounded pride more than 
any physical injury.  The "winner" of the fight was then punished by my uncle,
the lesson being that no one really wins a fight between brothers.

In these boyhood skirmishes the stakes are usually not very high - more often
than not the two participants will not remember what started the disagreement.
So while not much may be resolved, tension is released instead of supressed,
and the two boys return to being friends again.  

I can't help comparing this fraternal struggle to a typical summer weather 
pattern: heat and humidity build throughout the course of the day, culminating 
in a violent but brief thunderstorm, after which cooler temperatures prevail.  
It is this post-storm feeling of refreshment - however fleeting - that remains 
as I read and re-read Paul Pfleuger's fine haiku.
