Dear Friends and Fellow Haiku Poets,

The second quarterly issue of The Heron's Nest is posted and ready 
for viewing at: <http://www.theheronsnest.com/>!  As always, earlier 
issues are accessible as well; from the home page simply click on "Volume 
Contents" to read any of the thousands of haiku that have graced our pages 
over the past five years plus.

The Heron's Nest welcomes both traditional (approximately 5-7-5 with a
seasonal reference) and three-line modern haiku.  The deadline for the 
June issue is March 15th!  We accept only poems that have not have not been 
previously published and are not currently being considered elsewhere. We 
recommend that you send 5-15 poems at a time to one of the following 
Associate Editors:

Ferris Gilli, Associate Editor
treefrog.house@comcast.net

Robert Gilliland, Associate Editor
theheronsnest@austin.rr.com

Peggy Lyles, Associate Editor
turtlerock@worldnet.att.net

Paul MacNeil, Associate Editor
theheronsnest@yahoo.com

We are now accepting orders for Volume VII, the first annual paper edition 
of The Heron's Nest. It will be a beautifully produced, perfect-bound book 
containing the quarterly web issues of 2005 in their entirety. It will also 
include the results of the Readers' Choice Awards voting for Heron's Nest 
haiku published in 2005. The annual paper edition will be shipped early in 
March of 2006. The cost is $15 in the United States, u.s.$16 in Canada or 
Mexico, and u.s.$17 elsewhere. Please make checks or money orders payable 
in U.S. funds to Christopher Herold and send to:

   The Heron's Nest
   Christopher Herold, Editor
   816 Taft Street
   Port Townsend, WA 98368

As always, we're interested in your responses to The Heron's Nest
and, of course, to receive your haiku for consideration. We hope you
enjoy the latest issue and return to The Nest often.

In the spirit of haikai,

Christopher Herold, Managing Editor
theheronsnest@cablespeed.com

Carol O'Dell, Administrative Assistant
codsnest@cablespeed.com

Ferris Gilli, Associate Editor
treefrog.house@comcast.net

Robert Gilliland, Associate Editor
theheronsnest@austin.rr.com

Peggy Lyles, Associate Editor
turtlerock@worldnet.att.net

Paul MacNeil, Associate Editor
theheronsnest@yahoo.com

Paul David Mena, Webmaster
webmaster@theheronsnest.com

--

http://www.theheronsnest.com
