The Heron's Nest has a Fifth Birthday.

Come, join our PARTY!  Have a sardine!

High in a pine grove is a rookery.  Many birds are standing on twig-pile
nests.  Herons are letting forth a loud chorus of fish-breathed "GAAKs!"
If you look closely, you might see the highest heron in the biggest tree. 
For some reason, its head is shaved and it is wearing a little silver 
party hat held on by a purple rubberband. Wheee!

Here is what was, five years ago:

Volume I, Number 1: September, 1999. Copyright © 1999. All rights
reserved by the respective authors.

That first Nest had 33 haiku from three countries and 19 poets.
Christopher Herold was the Editor and Alex Benedict the WebMaster. Four
writers were either on staff or a spouse; two more of the 19 are now on
staff. Still with us in 2004 (Volume 6) are seven others: Kay Anderson,
Bill Higginson, Cherie Hunter Day, Joann Klontz, H.F. "Tom" Noyes,
Francine Porad, and John Stevenson.

Starting with the second issue, content went up to 43 poems. In
September 2000, the Nest increased to the current 53 haiku per month
with the addition of Ferris Gilli and Paul MacNeil as Editors to help 
with the load. A fourth Editor, Peggy Willis Lyles, and a replacement 
WebMaster, Paul David Mena, came aboard two years ago this month. All 
had long been successful poets of the Nest.

Putting out 2,880 haiku, 57 Commentaries in 57 regularly scheduled, and
always on-time Nests, plus five Valentine Awards Issues has involved
uncounted volunteer hours by all (6) of the staff. Thanks are also due
to the supportive spouses: Harry Gilli, Mary Mena, Bill Lyles, and Alice
Benedict. Carol O'Dell, Christopher's wife, was on staff from the very
beginning.

We deeply appreciate our paper-journal subscribers and the thousands of
readers who have found the journal via the Internet.

We are pleased at the international tone of the journal. This has
happened not by design, but as evidence of the worldwide dispersal of
haiku poets talented in the English language. For some contributors,
English is not their first language. These writers' abilites are
inspiring. To date, we have published haiku from 34 countries.

The Nest staff has also been very happy that within nearly each issue
are contributing poets new to the Nest; some new to haiku! In our five
years we have published haiku by 382 poets. To all those poets plus the
several hundreds of others who have shared their work with us and not
yet appeared in The Heron's Nest, a hearty thank you.

A haiku journal can only produce what is shared with the Editors. We are
grateful for the talent and good will of so many wonderful writers.

For Christopher and the staff of The Heron's Nest,

Paul MacNeil
1 September, 2004
