REMINDER TO VOTE!

Dear Friends, Readers, and Heron's Nest contributors,

This is a reminder that you have two weeks left in which to vote for 
your favorite poems from Volume VII (2005) of The Heron's Nest. The 
Readers' Choice Awards will be published in the first annual paper 
edition of The Heron's Nest, due out in late March.

HOW TO VOTE:

The December issue is now posted on-line. The other three issues in 
Volume VII are archived and easily accessible. 

Review all Volume VII poems by navigating to the "Volume Contents" page
at: <http://www.theheronsnest.com/haiku/>. There you'll find the quarterly 
issues with their respective haiku pages and indexes of poets.  Read through 
each of the issues and create a list of your favorite poems. Then narrow the 
field to just ten poems. Rank them in your order of preference with the 
first being your top choice. All poems in the quarterly issues of Volume VII 
are eligible except for poems included in memorials, poems written by The 
Heron's Nest editors or web-master and, of course, you may not vote for your 
own work. There is a Master List of poets who contributed work to Volume VII 
at: <http://www.theheronsnest.com/haiku/thn_va_index.07.html> which should 
prove very helpful in locating poems by particular poets. 

Send your chosen list of poems only to Managing Editor, Christopher Herold 
at: <theheronsnest@cablespeed.com>. Please do not inform the poets for whom 
you voted, at least until after the results of the Readers' Choice Awards 
have been announced.

DEADLINE: January 15.

REMINDER TO ORDER A PAPER EDITION OF THE HERON'S NEST, VOLUME VII

If you have not already pre-purchased Volume VII, now is a good time to 
reserve a copy for yourself. It will contain the quarterly issues of 2005 
and the results of the Readers' Choice Awards. It will also feature cover 
art and other artwork selected by judges in the first annual Heron's Nest 
illustration contest. The cost of Volume VII is $15 in the US, $16 in Canada 
or Mexico, and $17 everywhere else. Check or postal money orders can be made 
out to The Heron's Nest or to Christopher Herold. Send orders to Christopher 
Herold, 816 Taft Street, Port Townsend, WA 98368 USA.

---------------------
The Heron's Nest
www.theheronsnest.com
