
COMMENTARY

The poet speaks of angles in a poem that is aurally and visually
angular. The words ^Ósquare^Ô and ^Óangles,^Ô the sharp cut at the end of
the first line, and the sparseness of all the words save one^×these
factors lend physical and lingual shape. Use of the present participle
is the key to the poem^Òs musicality. Rounder in pronunciation than the
remaining words and having a third syllable, ^Óborrowing^Ô slows the pace.
I immediately read ^Óvillage square^×^Ô aloud several times to enjoy its
rhythm, and quickly became fascinated by the implication of the last two
lines.

With apparent ease and a perfect economy of speech, H. F. Noyes
describes an intriguing occurrence, one that is representative of
humanity^Òs interactive relationship with its surroundings. Though the
animal kingdom was the first to participate, humans are major players in
this ancient and continuing phenomenon. The poet sums it up with one
word: ^Óborrowing.^Ô Not only do our creative outward expressions reflect
our inner states of being, we seem to take on the appearance of our
milieu, whether it be artifactual or nature^Òs creation.

All things, including humans, show the effects of time and the elements.
Nowhere is this more evident than among people who spend much of their
lives out of doors. I first began to notice this as a child growing up
in a South Georgia farming community. Working long hours season after
season, in relentless heat under a glaring sky, the people who worked
the farms lost the bloom of youth by the time they reached their early
twenties. The lean, wiry men and women became more sun-dried with each
passing year. By middle age, their faces and necks had become leathery
and as furrowed as the plowed fields, and all those who stayed lean
developed a certain angularity.

In many traditional Greek towns, the stone-built houses, stone walls,
and cobblestone streets have been preserved and are still in use. I
imagine H. F. Noyes as he strolls through a village square, absorbing
the sunlit beauty of whitewashed stone, red tile roofs, and large
earthenware pots spilling with colorful blooms.  Perhaps he sits
agreeably among some of the elder residents, men and women of
indeterminate age, who live in the houses their ancestors built. He sees
that the faces of his companions, like the ancient buildings, reveal the
essence of the village.

Whether we experience it in a mountain burg, a small farming town, a
fishing village, or a bustling city, most of us will be able to share
the poet^Òs insight.  In his excellent book, still here*, H. F. Noyes
shares a comment from a letter he wrote to vincent tripi: ^ÓGrowing old
gracefully is giving back to life what was never ours.^Ô With ^Óvillage
square^×,^Ô the poet seems to be showing us that we are no more separate
from our habitats than any other species.

^×Ferris Gilli
April 2003

* Northfield, Mass.: Swamp Press, 2002

