Dear Contributors and Readers,

Because of the increasing number of poets who submit work to the
Heron's Nest we have decided to enlist the help of a new Associate
Editor. I am delighted to announce that the poet we unanimously hoped
would accept an invitation to join us has enthusiastically accepted. It
is with great pleasure that I welcome Robert Gilliland to The Heron's
Nest staff.

Robert was born in Galveston, Texas. He has always lived either in Texas
or in Louisiana and never too far from the Gulf of Mexico. Presently he
lives in Austin with his wife, Penny. In college, Robert earned a degree
in Italian (having gotten hooked on the "Commedia"). Later, he became
interested in medicine and received specialty training in psychiatry. He
wrote his first haiku in 1994, sent it to a local contest and promptly
won. A year lapsed before Robert's interest in haiku was rekindled by a
Bill Moyers Special in which Moyers interviewed the then U.S. Poet
Laureate, Robert Hass. Hass read from his recently published book of
translations--the haiku of Basho, Buson, and Issa. For Robert, those
breath-long poems were a revelation. "I was baptized that night in the
old pond," he recalls. Robert names Bob Spiess as a primary mentor and
also credits many fine writers of English language haiku with inspiring
him to refine his own craft. Robert began contributing to The Heron's
Nest shortly after its inception in 1999. He has been the recipient of a
Heron's Nest Award (Vol. V #8) as well as three other Editors' Choice
poems. His work also appears regularly in many other haiku journals.
Robert is a highly regarded member of the haiku community.

If you don't already submit work to The Heron's Nest but have been
thinking about it, please do send your work to one of our four Associate
Editors.

Ferris Gilli: <treefrog@cfl.rr.com>
8634 Ridgemar Court, Orlando, FL  32818-5660

Robert Gilliland: <theheronsnest@austin.rr.com>
3204 Lipscomb St., Austin, TX  78705

Peggy Willis Lyles: <turtlerock@worldnet.att.net>
2408 Wood Creek Court, Tucker, GA  30084

Paul MacNeil: <theheronsnest@yahoo.com>
5231 SE 17th St., Ocala, FL  34471


On behalf of The Heron's Nest staff,

Christopher Herold
Managing Editor

