Dear Readers,

We have several announcements to make. First, the October issue is
on-line and ready to be viewed at: <http://www.theheronsnest.com>.

Second, beginning with the next volume of The Heron's Nest (Vol. VI,
2004) we will publish one less issue per calendar year. Instead of
publishing a February issue AND the Valentine Awards issue, we'll only
publish the Valentine Awards issue in February. The reason for this is
primarily due to the extraordinary amount of work it takes us editors
and our web master to produce three issues within the period of 28 days
(February, Valentine Awards, and March). January and February have
always been exceedingly stressful due to this and I want to minimize
that stress as much as possible. The secondary reason is that we are
still operating marginally in the red. One less issue will help us to
break even, if the cost of an annual subscription remains the same as
it's been. It will remain the same for the forseeable future.

Next, I want to thank all of you who contribute work to The Heron's
Nest. Your votes of confidence and appreciation are evident in the
quality of the work you send to us. Ever more poets are submitting these
days, novice and veterans alike. We continue to get well over 1,000
poems to consider every month and we are delighted to observe the
quality of those submissions continuing to improve. We feel that it is
important to not expand the number of poems we publish each month,
opting to focus on quality rather than quantity. This translates into
stiffer competition than ever before, but it also translates into
commensurately greater satisfaction for those whose work is accepted.

Lastly, I'd like to remind you that the Valentine Awards voting will
begin with the release of the December issue. That's just two months
away. If the past four years are any indication of what to expect in the
way of voter-turnout, then this year is sure to be gratifying. Those of
you who've been choosing two or three favorite poems from each issue, as
it appeared, will have an easier time narrowing the field of 636 to ten
favorites than those of you who wait until December to sort through all
those poems. If you haven't started, now might be a good time to begin
collecting your favorites.

Thank you once again for all the wonderful poems you send, and for your
support of The Heron's Nest.


