ROBERT GILLILAND IS RETIRING FROM THE NEST

Our friend and colleague, Robert Gilliland, has announced that the press 
of family and professional needs will require him to relinquish his post 
of Associate Editor, effective upon the conclusion of work on the September 
issue. He makes this decision regretfully and we regret the passage, as well. 
Robert's service as an Associate Editor began with the October 2004 issue. 
(The Heron's Nest was a monthly publication at the time.) Over the succeeding 
four years he has provided editorial assistance to an ever growing list of 
poet contributors and has lent his sound judgment and subtle humor to the 
group process of selection and presentation of a consistently high standard 
of haiku poetry. We have been so grateful for his presence in The Nest and 
will miss him.

We are also grateful that Robert provided us with a generous period of 
notice, which has allowed us to find a successor, a task that required 
our careful consideration. We take this opportunity to celebrate Robert 
Gilliland. So often it happens that we don't realize what we may have done 
to inspire and move others. For those of you who share with us a debt of 
gratitude to Robert, now would be a good time to let him know about it.


ALICE FRAMPTON JOINS THE STAFF OF THE HERON'S NEST

We are very pleased to announce that Alice Frampton will join us as an 
Associate Editor and will begin to take submissions for the December issue 
as soon as selections for the September issue have been completed 
(approximately mid July). She will fill the place previously held by Robert. 
Those poets who have been submitting work to Robert should henceforth 
direct their poems to Alice at: <rowboat44@hotmail.com>

Alice is well known to THN readers through her work that has appeared in 
this journal. Here is a brief biographical sketch:

Alice Frampton has been a member of The Haiku Society of America and Haiku 
Canada since 2000.  Her haiku have appeared in Frogpond, The Heron's Nest, 
Modern Haiku, The Haiku Canada Newsletter (now haiku Canada Review), 
Raw NerVZ, the Red Moon Anthologies, A New Resonance 3: Emerging Voices 
in English-Language Haiku, Echoes, the Mie Times, Haiku Friends 2, and 
numerous Haiku Canada Member Anthologies, as well as Carpe Diem the new 
Canadian Haiku Anthology.  Her poems have placed in several contests, 
including a first place spot in the 2004 Snapshot Press Calendar Contest.  

Since 2003 Alice has been the regional coordinator for pacifi-kana (the 
northwest region and territories of Haiku Canada) and in 2006 she organized 
the Haiku Canada Conference in Vancouver at the University of British 
Columbia.  In January of 2007 she became a compiler/editor for Red Moon 
Press, working on the Echoes project, a reunion of New Resonance poets.  

For five years Alice has been teaching haiku to gradeschool children in 
British Columbia, most recently in April 2008, at Van Dusen Gardens for 
the Vancouver Cherry Blossom Festival.  After living in Canada for 
thirty-four years, she has recently moved back to her hometown in Washington 
State and has become an active member of Haiku Northwest. 

