 Dear Fellow Poets, Friends, and Readers,

 Beginning in 2005, The Heron's Nest will be 
 a quarterly journal on the web, appearing
 in March, June, September, and December. 
 The Valentine Awards issue will also be
 presented on the web. Beginning in 2006 it will come
 out in the first part of March under a new name:
 "The Heron's Nest Annual Readers' Choice Awards."

 Instead of quarterly paper issues, we'll publish a
 single paper edition as an annual volume. 
 The annual paper edition will be a
 beautifully produced, perfect-bound
 book of about 112 pages. It will contain the
 quarterly web issues from the previous year 
 in their entirety and will also include 
 the results of the Readers' Choice Awards 
 voting for that year. The annual paper edition 
 of The Heron's Nest will be shipped each year 
 early in March.

 We are happy to offer the annual paper edition of
 The Heron's Nest for substantially less than the
 current annual subscription price: only $15 in the
 United States, u.s.$16 in Canada and Mexico, 
 and u.s.$17 elsewhere. We are now accepting
 pre-publication orders for Volume VII, 2005, 
 which will appear in March of 2006.

 * Please note--if you presently subscribe to the
 paper edition of The Heron's Nest and your
 subscription ends after January 2005, you'll receive
 a letter, along with your November issue, 
 regarding options for the remainder
 of your subscription fees.

 Cover art for the annual paper edition of The
 Heron's Nest will be chosen by way of a competition.
 The details of this competition are to be announced
 within the next two or three months.

 The in-hand deadline for submitting poems for us to
 consider for the March 2005 issue is December 15.

 Valentine Awards voting for poems that have appeared
 or will appear in 2004 will take place as usual.
 Voting will begin upon release of the December
 (2004) issue and end at midnight on
 January 15, 2005. As in past years, this Awards
 Issue will come out on or soon after Valentine's Day
 in both web and paper editions.  For Volume VII and
 afterwards, the printed edition of
 the Awards will be part of the Annual Nest.

 On behalf of the Associate Editors, Ferris Gilli,
 Robert Gilliland, Peggy Willis Lyles, and Paul MacNeil, 
 our Web Master and Contributing Editor, Paul David Mena, 
 and our Administrative Assistant, Carol O'Dell, 
 I thank you for the privilege of serving you. We hope 
 that you'll enjoy The Heron's Nest even more in
 the years to come.

 Christopher Herold
 Managing Editor
