Dear Friends and Fellow Haiku Poets,

The second quarterly issue of The Heron's Nest is posted and ready
for viewing at: <http://www.theheronsnest.com/>!  As always, earlier
issues are accessible as well; from the home page simply click on "Volume
Contents" to read any of the thousands of haiku that have graced our pages
over the past five years plus.

TWO IMPORTANT REMINDERS:

1) The deadline for submissions for the September issue is Wednesday,
   June 15.

2) The deadline to submit artwork to be considered for the cover of
   Volume VII and for the beginnings of each of the seasonal sections
   is Tuesday, November 1, 2005.  Details are below and will be posted
   to the website soon.

* * * * * * * * * *

The First Annual Heron's Nest Illustration Contest

The editors and staff of The Heron's Nest invite you to submit samples
of your artwork to be considered for the first annual print edition of
The Heron's Nest (Volume VII).

You can enter two categories, COVER ART and/or SECTIONAL ART.

COVER ART: The work in this category must focus on herons or in some way
imply their presence. Impressionistic works are acceptable.

SECTIONAL ART: The art in this category will be used to separate each of
the quarterly issues and the awards issue. There are five possible themes:
each of the four seasons and a non-seasonal work that somehow heralds the
special feel of an awards presentation.

The art may be in any two-dimensional medium. It may be submitted in color,
but it is important that you know that all work will be reproduced in
black-and-white. The dimensions of the The Heron's Nest will be the
same as they have been in the past (5 1/2"  x  8 1/2"). The masthead and
volume number will appear on the cover and the issue number and date will
appear on each sectional page. Proofs will be sent to the winners for
approval. Only original works that have not been published will be
considered. All rights to the art will return to the artist once
Volume VII has been printed.

PLEASE SUBMIT SIX PHOTO-COPIES OF EACH PIECE OF ART in the dimensions:
5" wide x 8" tall. You may submit a maximum of five entries in the first
category (cover art) and up to five entries in each of the themes of the
second category (sectional art).

DEADLINE: in-hand November 1, 2005

All entries should be sent to Christopher Herold: 816 Taft Street,
Port Townsend, WA 98368.

JUDGES: David Noble, a highly-regarded graphic artist and book-cover
designer, along with editors and staff of The Heron's Nest.

* * * * * * * * * *

The Heron's Nest welcomes both traditional (approximately 5-7-5 with a
seasonal reference) and three-line modern haiku.  The deadline for the
June issue is March 15th!  We accept only poems that have not have not been
previously published and are not currently being considered elsewhere. We
recommend that you send 5-15 poems at a time to one of the following
Associate Editors:

Ferris Gilli, Associate Editor
treefrog.house@comcast.net

Robert Gilliland, Associate Editor
theheronsnest@austin.rr.com

Peggy Lyles, Associate Editor
turtlerock@worldnet.att.net

Paul MacNeil, Associate Editor
theheronsnest@yahoo.com

We are now accepting orders for Volume VII, the first annual paper edition
of The Heron's Nest. It will be a beautifully produced, perfect-bound book
containing the quarterly web issues of 2005 in their entirety. It will also
include the results of the Readers' Choice Awards voting for Heron's Nest
haiku published in 2005. The annual paper edition will be shipped early in
March of 2006. The cost is $15 in the United States, u.s.$16 in Canada or
Mexico, and u.s.$17 elsewhere. Please make checks or money orders payable
in U.S. funds to Christopher Herold and send to:

   The Heron's Nest
   Christopher Herold, Editor
   816 Taft Street
   Port Townsend, WA 98368

As always, we're interested in your responses to The Heron's Nest
and, of course, to receive your haiku for consideration. We hope you
enjoy the latest issue and return to The Nest often.

In the spirit of haikai,

Christopher Herold, Managing Editor
theheronsnest@cablespeed.com

Carol O'Dell, Administrative Assistant
codsnest@cablespeed.com

Ferris Gilli, Associate Editor
treefrog.house@comcast.net

Robert Gilliland, Associate Editor
theheronsnest@austin.rr.com

Peggy Lyles, Associate Editor
turtlerock@worldnet.att.net

Paul MacNeil, Associate Editor
theheronsnest@yahoo.com

Paul David Mena, Webmaster
webmaster@theheronsnest.com

--

http://www.theheronsnest.com

