faint stars . . .
the cabby speaks 
of home          
Timothy Hawkes

This wonderful haiku begins by setting a dream-like tone.  The "faint stars"
imply a night sky that demands attention by virtue of its very ambiguity.
One knows that the stars are there, but there is something obscuring that 
reality, leaving the reader in a state of muted anticipation.

And then, the cabby speaks of home.  A man with a lonely job, just trying 
to make an innocent connection during the hustle and bustle of yet another 
day; one imagines him engaging an unwitting stranger in a decidely one-sided 
conversation.

As one who grew up in New York in the seventies, two "taxi" themes are
permanently ingrained in my memory: Martin Scorsese's <i>Taxi Driver</i> (1976)
and the song <i>Taxi</i> by Harry Chapin (1972).  

In the movie <i>Taxi Driver</i>, Robert De Niro's Travis Bickle is a loner who 
takes a job as a cabbie during the night shift because he is an insomniac.
He offers very few facts about his background.  He is a 26 year-old ex-Marine
with a clean driving record.  He is a faceless person in a crowded city.  
Out of an acute desire to somehow escape his isolated life, he obsesses
over a young campaign worker, played by Cybill Shepherd, and then a child
prostitute, played by Jodie Foster.  In the movie's dramatic conclusion, the
child Iris is forcibly "rescued" from her pimp and reunited with her family - 
a homecoming that Travis Bickle will likely never experience himself.

Harry Chapin's <i>Taxi</i> is sung in the first person, drawing the listener 
into the story of a cabby, who by chance is reunited with an old flame.  The
encounter reawakens the memory of their youthful aspirations: "She was gonna 
be an actress, and I was gonna learn to fly."  Their brief time together 
concludes anticlimactically, before the ride ends and the two would-be lovers 
are again safely distanced from their dreams and one another: "there was not 
much more for us to talk about."

Timothy Hawkes' cabby, under a canopy of thinly veiled stars, has a similar
vision of home - a place of youthful ambition and endless possibility.  In 
seven brief words, this haiku is a portrait of nostalgia, warmth, and 
ultimately, hope.
